# Cricket Predictive Analysis using Machine Learning

This repository contains a research-based project on cricket predictive analysis using machine learning techniques. The project aims to explore the application of machine learning algorithms to predict outcomes and performance indicators in cricket matches.

## Table of Contents

- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Data](#data)
- [Models](#models)
- [Results](#results)

## Introduction

Cricket Predictive Analysis is an exciting field that leverages machine learning algorithms to analyze historical cricket data and make predictions about future matches. This project focuses on developing and evaluating predictive models to forecast various aspects of cricket matches, such as match results, player performance, team rankings, and more.

The project utilizes popular machine learning techniques, including regression, classification, and ensemble methods, to process and analyze large datasets of cricket matches. By training on historical data, these models can identify patterns, relationships, and factors that significantly influence match outcomes and player performances.

## Installation

To run this project locally, please follow these steps:

1. Clone this repository to your local machine using the following command:

**git clone https://github.com/SudhakarKumar1/cricket-predictive-analysis.git**

2. Navigate to the project directory:

**cd cricket-predictive-analysis**

3. Install the required dependencies using a package manager such as `pip`:

**pip install -r requirements.txt**

4. Once the dependencies are installed, you are ready to use the project.

## Usage

To use this project, follow these steps:

1. Ensure you have completed the installation steps mentioned above.

2. Run the main script to initiate the cricket predictive analysis:

**python main.py**

3. The script will process the data, train the predictive models, and generate insights and predictions based on the chosen task (e.g., match results, player performance).

4. Explore the results, visualizations, and reports generated by the project.

## Data

The project utilizes a comprehensive dataset of historical cricket matches, including various attributes such as match statistics, player records, team information, and contextual factors. The dataset is carefully curated and preprocessed to ensure data quality and consistency.

Due to licensing restrictions, we are unable to include the dataset within this repository. However, instructions on how to obtain the continous dataset and preprocess it for the project can be found on kaggle website.

## Models

The project employs several machine learning models, including but not limited to:

- Linear Regression
- Random Forests
- Support Vector Machines (SVM)
- Recurrent Neural Networks (RNN)
- Extreme Gradient Boost (XGB)

These models are trained on the historical cricket data to capture patterns and make predictions based on the chosen task.

## Results

The project presents detailed results and analysis of the predictive models' performance. The evaluation metrics, visualizations, and insights derived from the models' predictions are documented.

Feel free to explore the findings and assess the accuracy and effectiveness of the predictive models.

